# Nixpkgs Architecture Team Meeting #13

The following sections describe the agenda of the meeting and also serve as a place to put the corresponding meeting notes. After the meeting, these notes are moved to https://github.com/nixpkgs-architecture/meetings. This HedgeDoc link will be reused for all subsequent meetings.

## Protocol

- [Agenda](https://discourse.nixos.org/t/nixpkgs-architecture-team-meeting-13-agenda/22379?u=infinisil)
- [Recording](https://youtu.be/LzN40Vvt75Q)
- [Matrix announcement](https://matrix.to/#/!djTaTBQyWEPRQxrPTb:nixos.org/$IRP_gi2fp3LlDA9P06n7dYdjjhV1VU7X9HXucb39Z0g?via=nixos.org&via=matrix.org&via=nixos.dev)
- Who records: @infinisil
- Who leads the meeting: @infinisil
- Who takes meeting notes: @Ericson2314

## Notes

### Design wiki

@roberth Start of a [design wiki](https://github.com/nixpkgs-architecture/issues/wiki) for nixpkgs, where we can organize the knowledge from the meetings. Discussion points from [here](https://github.com/nixpkgs-architecture/issues/issues/12):
- Extend the scope of the team to maintain a knowledge base about the *potential* design of Nixpkgs in a wiki
- Delineate what should go into the wiki as opposed to what should be in separate discussions and in official docs

- @infinisil went over the rest of that thread so far
  - @Ericson2314: Re to valentin's comment's: Anything that's done would also be documented in the usual places, so not a problem. But also a bit skeptical of the benefit
  - @infinisil mentions it is a place to refer people when the same tangent show up again and again.
  - @Ericson2314: That makes a lot of sense! Like a fandom "lore wiki" in a way


### Hard decisions for meetings

@mkaito Only rely on meetings for hard decisions where the entire team needs to be there ([on Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/!djTaTBQyWEPRQxrPTb:nixos.org/$bheXKPIxe5oz7h8am0_3sYCeZqdOmrKrc9815idN80w?via=nixos.org&via=matrix.org&via=nixos.dev))

- @infinisil: Good to see everyone, build report, etc. So benefits of meetings beyond decision making or non-personal information exchange.
- @roberth: Sees both sides, meetings have been unproductive in the past, for now wants to keep every week.
- @Ericson2314: Agrees with @infinisil, have had some messy meetings, but the community needs more venues, might get rambling because we new to this and have a "backlog" of things to talk about, but the more things we do together, the more structure evolves, improving workings over time

### More functionality in packages passthru

@abathur Provide more config/util(/maintenance?) functionality by functions in a packageâ€™s passthru ([on Discourse](https://discourse.nixos.org/t/nixpkgs-architecture-team-meeting-12/22212/3?u=infinisil))
- @growpotkin: For complex modules, which we could use for packages instead, it's sometimes useful yes. But top-level functions are also sometimes the right thing.

- @growpotkin was loking at POP a bit

- YANTS yet another Nix typechekcing, a TVL project

### Providing runtime deps impurely after building

- @growpotkin: had used patchelf for providing runtime deps after the fact
  - @Ericson2314: symbol files

- @infinisil: coversation might have been about something else:
  - try to avoid runtime-only dep being compiled-in somehow
  - change openSSL version or similar

- @growpotkin: to even run the test suite for libtool he had to do some of that

- @infinisil: https://gist.github.com/infinisil/3366e7dfc9a01f6eeb25b5cb475cc585

- @Ericson2314: Think we can do this more purely
    - old goal: security rebuildings are not mass rebuilds
    - old idea: https://github.com/NixOS/nix/issues/1080, but don't think we need that anymore
    - Instead of building against .so's, build against symbol files instead (see also TAPI file)
    - Only at link time decide on explicit libraries to link against
    - Use symbol files with headers
    - CA derivations helps a lot
      - @growpotkin agrees, much easier for "complexity" and "crowd control"

- @growpotkin: there are some quirks, C++ especially
