# Nixpkgs Architecture Team Meeting #30
- [Past meeting notes](https://github.com/nixpkgs-architecture/meetings)
- [Recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uYx01qJ73z4)
- [Matrix announcement](https://matrix.to/#/!djTaTBQyWEPRQxrPTb:nixos.org/$pNJtaeis9ZTR3DqjzceAQbXC8vSjKjmVZn5cI2mscz8)
- Recorded and lead by: @infinisil
- Meeting notes by: @growpotkin
- Present members: @infinisil @Ericson2314 @tomberek @roberth @growpotkin

## Notes

- @infinisil: Have a team to make decisions and multiple teams doing the work

- @wanja: Rust community has MCP as a middle ground between RFC's and PR's

- @infinisil: proposals that are "internal" shouldn't require RFC, or the RFC should be limited to the effected developers. Proposals that effect end users can be open to a wider audience.

- rfcbot on PR's, automating approval, FCP, etc.

- @wanja: reaching scaling limit both for managing PRs in Nixpkgs.
  + A bot for auto-merging based on CODEOWNER subtrees could help alleviate this effort.

- @infinisil: how to organize working groups for issues?
  + @Ericson2314: should we move the `nixpkgs-architecture` issue tracker into `nixpkgs`?
    - @infinisil: there's a flood of issues in `nixpkgs`, it would be hard to find the one's we're interested in.
    - maybe label `nixpkgs-architecture` issues to make them more searchable; but unsure if there's a way to limit permissions so that only team members can use this label.
    - @infinisil: would prefer to keep it separate.
  + @tomberek: smaller working groups focused on individual issues separate from RFCs could be productive.
    - this will help us scale up to managing multiple projects.
  + @infinisil: want to find a way to allow non-team members to contribute to solutions.
    - limiting factor today is number of available hours for current team members.
    - crowdsourcing help from the community without necessarily requiring that they attend meetings/RFCs for "decision making".

- @tomberek: discussion for project, grafts (staging,security)
  + "grafting" is a process of overriding deeply nested dependencies.
    - sounds like a complex/alternative form of `override`/`extend`.
  + https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/blob/master/pkgs/build-support/replace-dependency.nix
  + followup with Alex
    - @growpotkin: sounds similar to a routine I implemented yesterday to handle `package.json` `overrides`.

- @tomberek: another discussion for rust packages: https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/pull/217084

- Next project to focus on?
  + @infinisil: naming of multiple versions/configurations of a package.
  + @roberth: use of module system for configuration of packages.
    - [drv-parts](https://github.com/nixpkgs-architecture/issues/issues/8)
    - +1 @growpotkin
      + an example of a `mkDerivation` wrapper with a module ( implements `override` and `overrideAttrs` )
        [floco:target:build](https://github.com/aakropotkin/floco/blob/main/modules/package/targets/built/implementation.nix)
    - +1 @infinisil
    - @tomberek: Looking into it sounds good, uncertain about the direction
        - [minimal module system](https://gist.github.com/roberth/940dff88ca5f5f95949dc309dbe60a65)
        - POP
          + @growpotkin: POP was pretty cool, https://github.com/NixOS/rfcs/pull/91
        - https://gist.github.com/edolstra/29ce9d8ea399b703a7023073b0dbc00d#solution-configurations
    - @Ericson2314: Alright to look into

- Priorities:
  - RFC 140
  - If @Ericson2314 also agrees, modules for package declarations
    - @infinisil: Let's try to find a working group via Discourse?
      - Set up weekly meetings
      - Have everybody say the time they have available
      - Have one person of the NAT be part of the working group

## Action items

- @infinisil will continue writing [the tooling](https://github.com/nixpkgs-architecture/nix-spp)
  - @tomberek, @infinisil, @wanja: Pair on https://github.com/nixpkgs-architecture/nix-spp
  - 17:45 CET, `date --date=@1676911500`, https://meet.jit.si/nixpkgs-architecture

- @roberth: Draft discourse post for working group assembly
