# 2023-06-13 Nixpkgs Architecture Team Meeting #40
- [Past meeting notes](https://github.com/nixpkgs-architecture/meetings)
- [Recording](https://youtube.com/live/4SEW_AgWFXw)
- [Matrix announcement](https://matrix.to/#/!djTaTBQyWEPRQxrPTb:nixos.org/$ZHjtomoj9vcYPCwp0whYugCTPgdysuUYHt4Z-AYNH9w?via=nixos.org&via=matrix.org&via=nixos.dev)
- Recorded and lead by: @infinisil
- Meeting notes by: @roberth
- Attendees: @infinisil @growpotkin @roberth @Ericson2314 @sy @j-k

## Notes

### RFC 140
- Discussion regarding alternate sharding: https://github.com/NixOS/rfcs/pull/140#discussion_r1212309795
  - No change necessary
- A lot of discussions regarding the name `unit` [on GitHub](https://github.com/NixOS/rfcs/pull/140#issuecomment-1584576384) and [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/!djTaTBQyWEPRQxrPTb:nixos.org/$tyv_8aYgp_unFZfXVgjMjLptdr2MjVqxST-sSmEvdcU?via=nixos.org&via=matrix.org&via=nixos.dev)
  - [FCP canceled](https://github.com/NixOS/rfcs/pull/140#issuecomment-1585081066), new proposal: `pkgs/by-name`
  - @Ericson2314 +1
  - @growpotkin +0 / +1
  - silence, team agrees
- Implementation of the first part: https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/pull/237439
  - moves hello
  - works in principle, but needs cleanup and better messages
  - `unit` needs renaming to `by-name`
- RFC 140 text
  - @infinisil will remove "standard" from the unit directory section, as it is not really a standard

### Packages Modules WG

- @DavHau will present [drv-parts](https://github.com/DavHau/drv-parts) on Friday. Will be recorded and linked from the [pkgs-modules](https://github.com/nixpkgs-architecture/pkgs-modules) repo.
- Stream scheduled: https://youtube.com/live/FmaFOlKRUKw?feature=share

### Time off

- @infinisil probably won't be there in the next meeting
- @roberth will do the lead and recording instead

### Post-meeting

- @infinisil: meetings are short because of working groups
- @Ericson2314: we might start a stdenv working group

